# NBA-Prediction
Predict the outcome of NBA matchups based on team and player-based stats

The Golden State Warriors have dominated the past decade of the NBA, mainly by virtue of their innovation combining statistical analysis with basketball operations. This gave birth to a new generation of superstars such as Stephen Curry and Luka Doncic. With more and more teams applying statistical models and Machine Learning algorithms to devising their game strategies, there has been a major shift in the way that the game of basketball is played and perceived. Instead of relying on instincts to make game decisions, it has been proven that utilizing the power of Machine Learning models gives more of a competitive edge to a team over those who do not. Each of the 30 teams in the NBA are now in an arms race to build the best model possible in predicting winning rates in order to help evaluate players and make in-game adjustments. 

However, NBA games are notoriously difficult to predict. The average score differential is about 10 points with average scores varying from 100-112 points, depending on the season. Still, the best machine learning models are only able to achieve 65-70% accuracy in predicting the game outcome. This can be attributed to a whole range of reasons, from intra-player chemistry to play-type specific restrictions, all of which statistical models are unable to capture. Our model aims to fill that gap by considering team metrics that truly indicate their current power, instead of regressing only on historic data. Additionally, we will train and fine-tune different possible models to see which attains the highest score and stability.  
